1) Can foreign key relationships be created
on tables defined with fields based on predefined data types?
Eg Deptno field in the emp and dept table is based on predefined 
data types

Ans:No
We get error as: Foreign key relations is only possible 
for fields with data elements.

2a) Can foreign key relationships be created
on tables defined with fields based on data elements only?  
No Domains 
Data Elements for fields are same in both tables

Ans: Yes 

Eg.
For dept table DataElement name is z104329dedeptno . 
It is based NOT based on domain.It is based on predefined data type.
i.e NUMC 2.

For emp table DataElement name is z104329dedeptno. 
It is NOT based on domain. It is based on predefined data type
i.e NUMC 2.


2b) Can foreign key relationships be created
on tables defined with fields based on data elements only?  
No Domains
Data Elements for fields are DIFFERENT in both tables

Ans: No
Eg.
For dept table DataElement name is z104329dedeptno. 
It is based NOT based on domain. It is based on predefined data type

For emp table DataElement name is z104329de1deptno. 
It is NOT based on domain. It is based on predefined data type

2c) Can foreign key relationships be created
on tables defined with fields based on data elements.
Eg. One table has field with data element, but no domain.
    Another table has field with data element and domain.
For dept table DataElement name is z104329dedeptno1 . 
It is based on domain Z104329DOMDEPTNO1.

For emp table DataElement name is z104329dedeptno . 
It is NOT based on domain. It is based on predefined data type.

Ans No: While creating proposal we get an Information message Check table has no
key field with the domain deptno.

3) Can foreign key relationships be created
on tables defined with fields based on data elements? 
Domains are created but domains for both data elements are different
Data Elements are also different

For emp table DataElement name is z104329dedeptno. 
It is based on domain Z104329DOMDEPTNO.

For dept table DataElement name is z104329dedeptno1 . 
It is based on domain Z104329DOMDEPTNO1.
No: While creating proposal we get an Information message 
Check table has no key field with the domain deptno


4) Can foreign key relationships be created
on tables defined with fields based on data elements? 
Domains are created and domains for both data elements are same
Yes

5) Can foreign key relationships be created
on tables defined with fields based on data elements? 
Domains are created and domains for both data elements are  same 
but data elements for the fields are different tables
Yes










 