So as we know, Agile is a mindset. So the question is, how do you
actually apply this mindset on a software development process? Well, the good news is that there
are a lot of frameworks that are available that you can use to apply this Agile
mindset for your team or for your project. But there's no silver bullet. So you have to customize this framework
to meet the needs of your team, your project, or your organization. And the key to customization is to make
sure that you stay true to the principles and the values of Agile and do not get bogged down by the rituals or
practices of a specific framework. So, let's familiarize ourselves with some
of these frameworks which are out there. One of the most common
ones is called Scrum. And Scrum is based on this one to four
week cycle, where you take part of your project and you do your define,
your develop, your design and you test your software and so
your product is developed incrementally. Another popular one is called Kanban,
which is based on a continuous flow model where you basically try to optimize your
existing software development process. Then of course there is a combination of these two called Scrumban where you
use Scrum as your primary framework. And then you use Kanban to optimize
your flow within your sprint. Another popular one which is
similar to Scrum is called XP. And so XP has most of
the practices of Scrum but it also defines some engineering practices
which are very crucial for an Agile team. Then of course there is
the hybrid of Scrum and XP. Another one which has become quite
popular recently is called Lean Startup which helps you if you have a lot of
unpredictable market or industry and you want to really prove your
solution before you implement it. So Lean Startup helps you in that area.
And there are many more. And more often than not, organizations
actually end up customizing some of these frameworks to meet the needs of their team,
or their project, or the organization. And if I may repeat,
I want to make sure that you stay true to the Agile principles and practices and do not get bogged down by the rituals or
practices of a specific framework. In terms of popularity,
Scrum is by far the most popular of all. It's about 70% of the Agile teams use
either Scrum or one of its variants. And that's how sometimes, people equate
Agile to Scrum, which, of course, you can see that it's not true. There are so many frameworks
out there that you can use for your Agile implementation.