In this video, we are going to talk about Sprint Execution and Standup. Basically, once the planning is done, the action on the ground, what is happening on the ground and how to make it very effective, that's what we're going to talk about. So if you look at the Scrum overview diagram, we're going to talk about the execution, the day-to-day activities that are happening. And then we're also going to talk about daily Scrum meetings. So, let's talk about the sprint execution first. The first question you ask is, who works on what? Well, in Scrum, it's recommended that the team members pick the work from the board rather than the work getting assigned to them. So, in that case, you want to make sure that your stories or your cards are in the order of priority. You want to limit work in progress. You don't want too many things going on at the same time and they are in progress. You want to start one thing and finish, and then start the next step. Again, it depends on how many team members are there in your team, but you want to minimize the work in progress. And to do that, these two concepts will help. First one is instead of too much parallel work going on, use swarming, where you pick one story and then have everybody focused on that one. One of the problems is that you have a team member who has skill Y but you need skill X for that work, and so, the skill Y person has to help with the skill X. Sometimes, it's possible, sometimes, it's not possible. The second thing is, if you have too many specialists, then also, it becomes not possible to have this kind of swarming. So, you want to create generalists and to do that, sometimes pairing helps, so two people working together. The next thing is discipline, discipline, discipline. So you want to make sure that whatever the team decided, they are following those rules and working agreements. And last, you want to make sure that team is following engineering practices. Now when you are doing Agile, when you are doing Scrum, the change is always there. And to embrace change, you need to make sure that you're following engineering practices like, continuous integration, automated deployment and many other engineering practices that help you adapt to change easily. Now, let's talk about Scrum. It's also called the daily standup. What is it? Generally, team members answer three questions and everybody answers these three questions. What did I do yesterday? What am I going to do today? And are there any road blocks? Well, there are alternatives if you don't want to use that. It's called Work Items Attend. So, in this case, what you do is you look at the board, you take the first story, and whoever is working on that story talks about that story, about the story like what did they do for that story, what are they planning to do. And then you go to the next story and so on. So, you basically go story by story. It's also called story focused standup. Who attends the standup? Of course, the core team. But any stakeholder can join the standup to get a feel for it or if they have any questions, that's the time that they can ask it. And how does the daily standup help and what's the purpose of it? Well, first is the daily team planning. It helps the team plan the day. Then, they can collaborate. They can ask for help. They can identify blockers. And then, in the end you also get the status check. Now, make sure that the status check is not the main goal of the standup. And it's not like everybody is telling the manager what is the status of their work. Then that is not really the spirit of daily standup. Other tips is that you want to make sure that the board is visible to everyone during the standup, so they can go on the board and talk around the board. That keeps everybody focused on what we decided to finish. Parking lot is an idea where if sometimes the discussion goes on and on, so you want to curb the discussion and just say, "Okay, let's keep this topic in a parking lot so that we can sort it out after the standup." Because we would want to keep the standup short.