In this lesson, we are going
to learn about Sprint Review. If you look at the Scrum overview, a Sprint Review happens at the end of
the sprint where you demo your work, get some feedback, and you show the work
that you have done in this sprint. Let's dig a little deeper. So, the purpose of Sprint Review is to
review the work you've done in the sprint, and share the learnings from the sprint. You get some feedback, and based on that
you can adjust your future direction. And of course, it's time to celebrate. Who do you invite? Your core team members, your stakeholders,
and anybody and everybody. You want to show the work
that your team has done. You want to sometimes even invite the
manager who's not involved in the project, but he's your boss. You want to show what work you are doing. How long does it take? Most cases, it takes about an hour, but sometimes if there
are multiple teams involved, or if there's a big team, sometimes
you can schedule up to two hours. What happens in the Sprint Review? Well, you start with summarizing
what you planned, what you finished, what were your learnings,
what were the road blocks, until you summarize what exactly
happened in your sprint? Then you demo the work that you have done. So, individual team members actually
demo the work that they have done. And then you discuss the
sprint with your stakeholders, get their feedback, and if needed you
adapt a future direction of your product. When you're doing the Sprint Review,
you don't want to wait for the Sprint Review to show off your work. If you are done, let's say with
a particular story you are done earlier, you can show it to your product owner,
you could even show it to the user to get the feedback because you don't want to
wait for the Sprint Review to get that feedback and then if there is a change
needed you can do it within the sprint. Some teams follow this rule
of demo done things only. That helps them stay focussed and encourages the team member
to finish their stories. So, it could be a good rule to do that. But in some cases if you're not
demoing the work that you almost have done, it may result in not getting
the feedback that may help you. So, again there are pros and
cons of this rule. Make an effort to get stakeholders to attend. I think this is the meeting where you
can build trust with your stakeholders of your commitment of
what you're delivering. So I think you want to make an effort to
have them attend your Sprint Review. And then you want to make sure that the
presentation is done by individual team members rather than one or two people. That provides motivation and provides
encouragement for them to do good work. In terms of the prep work,
you have to just find the right balance. You want to have enough prep work so
that the Sprint Review looks good. But you don't want to spend too much
time in your Sprint Review planning.