In this lesson, we are going to learn about an important
concept in Agile planning called velocity. To learn about velocity,
let's take an example. Let's say, you are in a new country and
you are on a road trip from point A to point B which
is about 300 miles apart and I ask you how long will it take
you to go from point A to point B? You may answer like I don't know
what kind of roads are going to be. What kind of traffic it is. So come back after an hour or two, and I'll tell you how long
it's going to take me. So after you have driven for a while, let's say in the first
hour you covered 50 miles. And in the next hour,
you covered 45 miles. So if I come after two hours and
I ask you, how long do you think now it'll
take you to reach point B? You may say, well, it's 40, 50, 45. Approximately, I'll say, 50. Ad so, it'll take me and
I have driven for two hours. So I think it's going to
take me another four hours. So, my velocity is approximately 50 and
I have another 200 miles to go. So, it's about four more hours. Similar concept is used in Agile planning. So, velocity is the amount
of work that a team ... so, it's about team ... a team is getting done in a sprint. And then again, then it depends
on the team or the project. For example, in your case,
the road matters, the traffic matters or the people who are in your car matters. So if you have kids,
you might take more breaks. And if you are just single,
then you might just go faster and you don't take as many breaks. So again, it depends on a lot of factors. But whatever is the team
velocity is what we use. So, how do we calculate velocity? So to calculate the velocity for
a sprint that you just finished, let's say, you just finished a sprint and you want to
calculate the velocity for that sprint. You basically take all
the stories that you finished. Let's say, you finished three stories
with estimates of 5, 3 and 10 and you add them together. So in this case,
it's going to be the velocity for that sprint is going to be 18. Now, velocity is also used for
predicting or selecting stories for an upcoming sprint. So let's say, you just finished
as you can see in the table here, the sprint 21 to 27 and their velocity. So let's say, you are about to
start the sprint number 28 and you want to know what velocity you should
use to pick the number of the tory for a sprint 28,
then there are several ways you can do it. The first one very simple. You may say, well, I'm just going to use
the velocity of the last sprint always. So if I'm doing a sprint 28, I'll just use
the sprint, the velocity for sprint 27. So in this case, if I use that technique,
I'll just use the velocity of sprint 27 which is 23 and that's what I'll
use for sprint 28 for planning. Another concept you can use
is average of last X sprints. So in this case,
if I use the last three sprints, then the predicted velocity or
the velocity that I will use for planning sprint 28 will be
the average of sprint 25, 26 and 27. So the velocity for sprint 25 is 25,
26 is 27 and then for sprint 27 it's 23. So I add them together and
take an average, it comes out to be 25. So for sprint 28,
I will take stories worth 25 points. The third style of calculating
velocity is the velocity range. So in which, you calculate the minimum and the maximum velocity for
the last X sprints. So in this case,
if I was using the last three sprints, then to calculate the velocity range for
spring 28, I will be using spring 25, 26 and 27 and the minimum is 23 and
the maximum is 27. So, I will be using the minimum is 23 and
27. So, the range is going to be 23 to 27. Now if you look at sprint 23,
you see the velocity of 54. That sounds like an anomaly. So unless it was pretty natural,
they must have something special or something has happened. But in this case,
you would skip that velocity. So in case I was using the last five,
if my method was to use the last five sprints for calculation,
I would skip sprint 23. Now, there are several situations that you
will encounter as you will use velocity. So, let's take some of those situations
in which you may have to adjust your velocity or not. So what if you are just starting a new
release and a new project, and a new sprint? You don't have any history of your sprint. So, what will you do in this case? Well, what you can do is you can take a
few sample stories from your backlog and the team can get together and just say, pick stories that we think
we can get done in a sprint. The team may want to task
it out like talk about it. Task it out how to do those stories,
so they have a better idea. But in a nutshell, they want to pick a few stories that
they think they can do in a sprint. And then just the total or sum them up,
sum up all the estimates and that becomes your starting
velocity to plan for the sprint. Another situation or situations you may
encounter is more people are joining your next sprint or somebody new joined,
or a few people are leaving the team, or people are going on vacation. So, how do you handle these situations? Should you adjust your velocity for
that? Well, the point is to continue to use
the velocity of the previous sprint, except in the case where
most of the team is going. So for example, in case of holidays
when most of the team is out, then you may want to register it. But in most cases, it averages out. So you don't need to do any adjustment,
especially for these three situations. Because let's say,
a new team member joins. Then they're going to take
some time to get used to and some time in the beginning,
although they may contribute. But they would also take some time away
from people who are going to explain to them or get them up to speed. So, and you don't know the new team member. What is the impact on the team
velocity he or she will have? So that's why it's best to just continue
to use the velocity from the previous sprints. Then another situation you may
encounter is, what if the estimates were off? So you were working on a story
that you estimated to be 3, but it actually took you 4 or more. So, should you adjust these velocities for
that estimate or should you just estimate? Well, generally it averages out. So the recommendation is no
need to adjust the estimate for those stories, but
in a case where you had a new learning. So let's say, every screen,
we learned new stuff that "hey, now, going forward,
we need to do both browser checking and most of the screens are now going to
take double the time or more time." Then all the stories related
to this kind of work, we should adjust their estimates. In those cases, yes. If there is a new learning and there's
a bunch of stories that will be impacted from it, you should go to your story
backlog and update the estimates. But other than that,
the story, the velocity and the averaging will take care of that. So, that's all about velocity.