Now, let's talk about Sprint Tracking. How do you actually track the sprint to make sure that we are staying on track? There are three methods: Burn down, Burn up, and the Task board. So in Burn down, we map the amount of work left in a sprint. So, in this diagram, the x-axis is the time, so the days of the sprint, and the y-axis is the sum of task estimates. So the blue line is showing what is the ideal way the amount of work should go down. So, by the end of the sprint, it should go down to 0. It starts with the total number of work and then it should go to 0. And the red line is showing the actual task remaining. So, as you can see in the beginning, the team was doing good and then in the middle, they were not on track and then finally, they came back. The next one is a Burn up. So in Burn up, you map two things: the total work and then the total work completed. So the red line is the total of all the tasks that are needed to be done in the sprint, and the blue line is the number of tasks completed. The green dotted line shows the ideal path. So in Burn up, it also shows if the work increased or if the estimate went up for a certain task, or if tasks were removed from the sprint or if the estimate went down. As you can see, the red line, one time it goes up and then it comes down. So those are the times when something like that happened. And the blue is the total number of tasks completed cumulative at any given time. So, this gives you an additional idea of the total work whether that changed for the team or not. As you can see, they were behind the schedule, and then they came ahead of the schedule. The last part is the task board, which is a visual way to see whether you are on track or not. So in this case, if this was, I would say, probably half of the sprint, then I would say we are on track, maybe ahead of the schedule. And if this was the last day of the sprint, then I would say we are behind. We have so many tasks in progress and one of the tasks has not even started. So the task board gives you a visual indicator of whether the team is on track or not. So, one of the ideas is that we should always keep this task board visible during the standup so that when you are talking during the standup, you can see whether you're on track or not. And then if there are too many tasks in progress, that's generally a bad smell. You want to finish tasks and not have too many tasks in progress. And make sure you have the definition of Done for your stories, so you know that when it is done, it's actually done.