In this lesson, we're going to learn about Release Planning. So what kind of releases can you do and how do you manage or how do you plan them? So there are two types of release planning. Either it's a fixed scope and you want to answer how long will it take, or it is a fixed date or time frame, so you want to know what can you deliver in that time-frame. So let's start with a fixed scope release. So, let's say this is your story map and you want to release everything in release 1. Whatever stories are there in release 1. So since you already know the scope, your question is, the date is variable so your question is, when will it be done? So to answer that question, you need to know your sprint length and then, you need to know the velocity that you're going to use or velocity range. And then, you total up all the estimates for the stories in the release 1, and then you take the total estimate and divide it by a velocity, that velocity. That will give you the number of sprints you need for that fixed scope release. Once you have the number of sprints, then if you multiply by the sprint length, you get the duration in weeks. So let's take an example and see how it plays. So let's say for that release 1 that we talked about, all the stories, if you total them up, it's about 120 points. And we are using two week sprints. And the cost for the whole team is about $50,000 per week. So it costs about $50,000 per week to fund the team. And here is a velocity chart for the team. So in the last three sprints to sprint 25, 26 and 27, the velocity was 15, 20 and 18. So the minimum velocity was 15 and the maximum velocity was 20. So our velocity range is 15 to 20. Now, let's calculate it. So at a high velocity which was 20 and since I have a 120 points, it's going to take me about six sprints. And if I go at the slowest speed which is 15, it will take me about eight sprints. So it will take between six to eight sprints to finish this release. Which means, if I multiply by two weeks, it's about 12 to 16 weeks. And if I want to calculate the cost, then for 12 weeks, it's 12 times 50,000. So that's about $600K and if I go with the 16 weeks, then it's about $800K. So I know the duration, the duration is 12 to 16 weeks and the cost is about $600,000 to $800,000. Now, one question you may ask is, how do you select a story for a fixed scope release? There's lot of different things to consider, a lot of tools to use. So one other thing I would recommend is to use the story map if you're having and craft the release so that it is usable by the user. So, you use a story map to say that whatever we are building in a particular release it's coherent to each other and it will be useful. The second thing to think about is that, Agile, we focus on continuous delivery. So you want to have a short feedback loop, and so you want to only keep the stories that are very important for achieving the outcome of our release and everything else should be out in the future releases. Now, how do you consider what to consider in selecting a release? Well, there are different factors like you may be thinking about a specific thing that you want to learn about your product, so you may select stories for that learning, or there are particular stories that will provide a lot of value in the market so you might select those stories, or maybe there is a risk that you want to mitigate, so in that case, you will select stories that help you mitigate that risk. Or sometimes they're just dependency like unless you have done this part of the system, you really cannot build the second part so you have to do the stories for part 1. So those are different things that you can consider in selecting a story for a release. Now, let's talk about the fixed date release. So in a fixed date release, the duration is fixed and you're trying to identify what can be released in that period. So let's say, if it is an eight-week release, then you want to know what can we release in these 8 weeks? So to do that, what you need to do is you need to have your backlog groomed so you know what is the highest priority and the lowest priority, you need to calculate your velocity range, you need to know your sprint length, and then once you know these three things, then you can calculate the number of sprints for the given release. So, if you have two-week sprints and it's an eight-week release, then you know that there are 4 sprints. Then you calculate your release capacity based on your velocity range. So whatever are the number of sprints, then you multiply that with the velocity, the lower velocity and the higher velocity and that gives you your release capacity that we can release up to these many points of course, for sure, and then these are the maximum number of points or words that we can release in the upcoming release. And then you look at your backlog and then you just include the items that will hit the lower boundary of your release capacity, and then you definitely stop before you hit the higher boundary of your release capacity. So let's take an example to understand this. So let's say our next release is in 8 weeks and we have two-week sprints and our velocity range is 15 to 20. And here is our backlog in the priority order. So the left, the first story which is of 10 points, is the highest priority and the last story which is 20 points, is the last priority. So let's see how we'll go about it. So, the number of sprints for 8 weeks is going to be 4 sprints. And so, if we go by the velocity of 15, then we can finish up to 60 points of work in this release. If we go by the high velocity which is 20, then we can finish up to 80 points. So, we're going to select something between 60 to 80 points. So if you look at this backlog, the groomed backlog, most likely if I count from left to right, it's about 60 points are those first five stories. So 10 + 5 + 15 + 20 + 10. That's about 60 points. So I know that I can mostly be able to do that because that's my minimum velocity. Then the next few adds up to 20. And so, that will be maybe like between 60 and 80 maybe I'll be able to finish it. And then since 20 is my highest velocity, it's not likely that the rest of the story will be done. So this is how if you have the velocity range and if you have the groomed backlog, you can determine what you will be able to release, and you may be able to release and you are most probably not going to release.