In this video,
we are going to talk about Sprint Retrospective where you
reflect. How was the process? How did the team work together? How can they get better? So, if you look at the Scrum overview, the Sprint Retrospective happens
at the end of the sprint. And the main thing the team talks
about is, how are we working together? And it's about the process and
it's not about the product. To me, the Sprint Retrospective
is one of the most important activities in Scrum if
not the most important. Because no matter how much you plan, you cannot get your process
right the first time. So you always want to make sure that
you're constantly improving your process and also, sometimes things change and
you need to add just your process. And this is the meeting that
allows you to reflect back and make changes that'll
make your team better. Who do you invite? It's only for the core team. You don't want the stakeholders
in this meeting, because you want to have an open
conversation in your team. So you just want to invite the core team.
When do you do that? At the end of each sprint. And it's generally an hour,
but you can add more or less based on the topic or
the big team or a small team. What's the purpose of
a Sprint Retrospective? It's continuous improvement. What happens in a Sprint Retrospective? Well, the most common format is
that you talk about what's working, what's not working, and action items. So what happens is that everybody gets
together in a room, and then on the board you have three columns: what's working,
what's not working, and action items. And everybody gets these stickies
where they write on each sticky: what is working and another sticky what's
not working for each of their suggestion. And they get up to the board, they talk
about it and they put it on the board. Then the whole team gets together and
again, kind of talks about these items, and says, what are a couple things that
we want to do or we want to improve? So, that's the most common
format of a Sprint Retrospective. But you can do an alternative where
you're doing a Focused Retro. So you pick a topic, for example, let's
say you're not finishing the stories, or there are a lot of defects and
you want to say, what is going on? So, in that case,
it's a Focused Retro on a specific topic. So, in that case, the steps are;
first, you set the atmosphere. You just tell everybody that
it's a candid environment, and you should feel free to share ...
it is for ourselves. So once you set the atmosphere,
then you talk about the context. So you give, based on the data
that you have collected, you say these many defects happened last,
then these many happened, what is going on? Then the whole team will
reflect at the data. They look at what they did, or
they identify the insights from the data and they identify, what are the action
item we're going to do to get better? And then you close the Retro. Now, no matter what format of
Retrospective you are doing, make sure you follow
through the action items. If you don't follow
through the action items, people will lose interest in the Retrospective
and they will stop participating. So you want to make sure
you follow through. And then sometimes if you use
the same format again and again, people do get bored, and so you want to
change the Retrospective format. One of the formats I know of is when a team
member, what they did is they got lots of pictures from somewhere, and
then they spread the pictures in the room, and then everybody has to pick a picture
from that bundle of pictures to represent how they felt about the sprint. That makes this Retrospective
a little bit more interesting. Another one is somebody
used the happiness level. They said how happy, out of 1 out of
10, were you from the work that you did in the last, that again, encourages a
different kind of discussion in the room. You want to avoid finger-pointing, because that can make the environment
not conducive for open discussion. And as far as the action
items are concerned, you want to select only a few action items. Because when there are lot of action
items, very few of them get done, and then you get the feel that
there's no follow through. So, you want to select
just a few action items. Sometimes people are not
talking in Retrospectives. In that case, you can get them
started with some non-work questions. So at least the inertia of talking is
gone, or you can go round robin so everybody has to speak. Sometimes if the manager is in the room,
then the team members won't speak out, so you may ask the manager to
opt out of the Retrospect. If the group is very large,
sometimes you can say, okay, everybody provide their feedback then
in a couple of groups they discuss, and then the group share their
finding with the rest of the groups. That helps contain the discussion,
otherwise interact 20 people and everybody is talking,
then it doesn't allow a good discussion. So if there are a lot of people, you
want to do individual, then couple groups, and then with the whole team.